ABSTRACT
GENARO A. SACLAO ill, JULIE ANN L. SICAD, "DOCUMENT TRACKING
AND ARCHIVING SYTEM FOR DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND HIGHWAYS REGION V," (Unpublished Undergraduate Thesis, Bicol
University College of Science, Legazpi City, April 2013)



The study aims to develop a DOCUMENT TRACKING AND ARCHIVING
SYSTEM FOR DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS REGION
V that will provide efficiency of stable archiving, fast retrieving and monitoring of
different types of documents.
The study used the descriptive and developmental methods of research
intentionally to get a proper, profound and inclusive comprehend of the system. t
shows an active involvement of the proponents in the system being studied for
the purpose of defining system that would satisfy client's needs and achieving
company's goal and objective
The researchers chose the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
waterfall model, which is an outline of processes that aided in developing
successful systems. It served as a guide throughout the development study. In
developing the system, the researcher found Hypertext Processor (PHP) easy to
use for the program that was design for creating dynamic website and MYSQL
for the database system. The system grants features that would be beneficial to
DPWH ROV. Includes the User Employee Information Profile, Document
Tracking System, and Cataloging and Archival System. Al the authorized
employees involved in the office's records management are provided with
individual accounts into which transactions involving records management and
operations are kept, recorded and tracked. Document information are available
on demand to those who are allowed to access the document, but the
Administrator still has the highest privilege in managing the system, also the user
of the system such as Regional Director who have the privilege of approving the
documents/communications. Printable documents and reports are also readily
available for the users.
The system was able to track communications circulating within DPWH
ROV. Thus, this displays necessary information about the document such as its
date and time received, source, status, type, receiver and its destination.
Significantly, this enables the employees to send, receive, reply and forward
communication electronically.
Documents were classified by document type and a document number is
automatically generated and assigned by the system to every communication.
This is significant for cataloging and archival process of documents. The system
also enables the employee to browse documents sorted in category depending to
its type and classification. The system generates reports that allows the user to
filter the all the documents. Filtering of documents can be by document type,
date, sender, receiver, destination and subject matter. It enables employee to
save in Excel and PDF. It could also be printed directly from the browser and
copied to clipboard.With that, the system makes the retrieval process a lot easier. Notification
functions to users for receive documents and for the admin of the system
receive notification for documents and registration of the employee. The system
was able to determine the status, and display the list of record users of a certain
document.